hey guys what's up and welcome back to
the small edits channel today we are
going to be talking about reverse
dieting and in case you don't know what
that is don't worry we're going to talk
about what it is
why you should do it when you should do
it and how you should go about doing it
and if you've been following the small
lytics lifestyle for a while you know
that we opt for
a sustainable lifestyle not a lifestyle
where dieting
and then bulking and reverse dieting all
these things we don't make it
complicated we teach
inside the petite power program which is
our 12-week transformation program for
petite women
how to eat at your maintenance calories
which should be a good amount of
calories
and sustainably lose fat over a period
of time in a way that you never have to
diet again
you never have to reverse diet again but
if you're starting out at a place where
your calories are really low because you
have chronically dieted or yo-yo dieted
and your metabolism slowed
then we do work with clients taking them
through a reverse diet and so as a
result
i get a lot of questions about reverse
siding so this video has been highly
requested
and i thought we would just dive into it
make sure that you get out
a piece of paper notebook and a pen
because i'm going to be giving you a lot
of information
and you're going to want to write it
down and before we hop in give this
video a thumbs up if you're excited to
learn about reverse siding
and let's jump into it
okay so in order to understand what
reverse dieting is we should probably
agree on what dieting
means in the first place so dieting is
when
you slowly or quickly decrease the
number of calories you're eating in a
day
intentionally and you increase your
cardio
basically this is the most popular way
women try to lose weight right it's just
classic dieting diets and by the way 99
of diets fail they're just not
sustainable when you start decreasing
your calories
at first you might lose weight but
you'll notice over time you hit a
plateau
and this is because your metabolism is
adjusting to
your new lower calories this is called
metabolic adaptation in other words
your metabolism is slowing down and this
is natural when you diet your metabolism
slows
when you reverse diet your metabolism
increases you can eat more calories
so a reverse diet is when you increase
your calories
and you decrease your cardio you start
to taper off
the high amounts of cardio that you've
been doing
which tends to go hand in hand with
people who have been chronically dieting
or
stuck at a low calorie threshold now you
guys know i talk about the dangers of
dieting for petite women often because
as petite women we naturally have slower
metabolisms another way of saying that
is that we naturally need
fewer calories in a day just to
carry out all of the metabolic processes
in our body so
for example a taller woman she might be
eating
1700 to 2000 calories per day whereas it
was very normal
to have petite women eating 1500
calories a day
and feeling satiated there however a lot
of times
we see petite women going way under that
thanks to
calorie calculators online and really
bad advice we get
we tend to be eating like 1200 calories
or less
and this is a very low amount of
calories to be eating
you probably already know it if you're
doing it yourself at that point you're
probably the portions of your meals have
to be really small
it's really hard to enjoy restaurant
food or go out or holidays
because it's just so little food your
quality of life is going to go down
and not to mention it's going to be very
hard to build muscle to get all the
nutrients you need to be healthy
and to you know make gains in the gym
and also at that you'll reach a point
where you can no longer
progress towards your fat loss goals
because you're just going to hold on to
fat
and you're going to lose muscle and
that's the opposite of what we want
right you want to lose fat you want to
build muscle
so reverse dieting is going to be really
important for petite women who find
themselves eating
very few amount of calories per day i'd
say under
1400 calories per day you probably want
to consider reverse diet
definitely if you're 1200 and under
that'd be a sure sign
one million percent sure sign if you're
under a thousand calories per day
you would benefit from a reverse diet
now how do you know how many calories
you're eating in a day
simply keep a food journal for three to
five days
i recommend using the my macros app and
just
track scan the barcode of foods you eat
track the portions weigh them on a scale
if you can or eyeball it
and try to be as accurate as you can
though track what you eat for
three to five days and then take the
average and that's how
you know how many calories roughly
you're eating in a given
day on average
okay so we've talked about what river
siding is and who it's for
i wanna talk about some of the reasons
why you might want to do it besides the
ones we already went over which is
increasing your capacity for food
you can have a lot of problems when you
chronically diet over time it can cause
hormonal imbalances
which can affect your sleep and your
quality of sleep
you can plateau which i already
mentioned and not be able to lose fat
anymore
you can start to experience a loss
of your period your menstrual cycle
amenorrhea is what it's called
a lot of things can happen when you
start to diet some are more extreme like
losing your period and some are just
quality of life one is you can't eat as
many calories in a day
another is you might be stuck doing lots
and lots of cardio every
day so it's really important if you're
in this phase to consider
the really nice benefits of reverse
dieting which are
being able to eat more food improving
your health improving your energy levels
your hormones your sleep
a lot of reasons to reverse diet
so you could be coming off of a diet
like you did an intentional diet you
could be a chronic diet or a yoyo dieter
or you could just be maintaining your
current weight at a really low number of
calories
this is what we see the most with petite
women it's just
oh i just eat a thousand calories a day
and i don't gain or lose weight i'm just
kind of stuck here so that would be
another reason to
reverse diet ultimately i think the most
attractive
points of reverse dieting are building
muscle again
improving your mood and being able to
be in a place where you can lose fat
again just getting out of that
plateau and increasing your metabolism
because that's what you're doing when
you're
residing you're increasing your
metabolism
okay so i want to go over the four steps
and how you can do it sort of the
principles or foundational
pillars of reverse dieting the very
first one is going to be that you're
obviously going to have to increase your
calories
now everyone is going to want to know
how many
but i cannot i wish i could i wish i
could give you the exact number of
calories that you should be increasing
but it depends it depends on your
activity levels it depends on your
history
it depends on your your training what
are you doing for your training it
depends on where your calories are right
now it depends on a lot of things so
just know that if i could give you a
magic number i would but it would not be
good to do that and it wouldn't
necessarily help you
the key is to start slow you can start
by increasing your calories from
where you currently are that'll be your
baseline calories about two to five
percent more
each week just start there there's no
need to
ramp it up quickly and starting slowly
allows you
to increase your calories while giving
your body the time it needs
to adjust to this new level of calories
figure out what to do with it
so that you don't just store it as fat
if you suddenly increase your calories
by a lot
you will likely store it as excess fat
so it's really key that you give your
metabolism time
to adjust to a higher calorie diet
and just do it slowly there's nothing
that can be lost by doing it slowly so i
would just say two to five percent more
each week
and make sure that you're just doing
that responsibly that will really really
make a huge difference in how successful
your your reverse diet is if you do it
slot
now the second pillar is i recommend if
you're not already to start strength
training and lifting weights in the gym
this is going to really help put those
calories to use
in a really efficient way by encouraging
your body to build muscle during that
time to put those extra calories towards
building muscle
rather than storing it as fat this is
really really important part of reverse
dieting of course it's an important part
of training in the smallest way anyways
is just lifting weights building lean
mass
but during a reverse diet you're going
to be much happier with your results if
you are putting those calories into
weight training
now the third pillar is you don't have
to
track your macros during a reverse diet
however i do believe you'll have better
results
and that's just my own opinion because
you'll learn more about what you're
eating
and you'll learn and get the education
you need
to get there and understand
kind of what's happening with your body
of course if this is totally out of your
realm i highly suggest hiring
a coach or an expert we have dietitians
in our program
someone who really knows what they're
doing with this who can teach you or if
you already have experience tracking
macros
then definitely continue to track macros
through your reverse diet
so that you're keeping track of
everything and you know how much you're
increasing each week
now that being said if you are counting
your macros your protein your fats and
your carbs
then you want to make sure you're
getting sufficient protein to build
muscle in the gym
and also increasing your protein a
little bit during reverse diet is a
really safe way to increase calories
because
we have the highest thermic effect
eating protein
meaning our body burns more calories
metabolizing protein
than it does carbs or fat so if you can
allocate a little bit more calories over
to your protein
during your reverse diet you will likely
have a much better result as well
in general if you have no idea how much
protein you're eating
go back to step one do your food journal
see what
you're eating and generally you want to
aim for about a gram of protein per
pound
of body weight that's the simplest
formula and if you're not there
then start to increase there that'd be a
great place to start for your reverse
side
the fourth pillar of reverse dieting is
to slowly taper
out the cardio so if you've been doing a
lot of cardio
running cycling whatever it is your step
count is like really really high
you're going to want to slowly
slowly decrease that because our body
gets used to
burning up calories through cardio and
we get more and more efficient so we'll
burn less and less the more cardio we do
basically our body it adapts it gets
really good at what you're telling it to
do so if you eat fewer calories and do
more cardio
you will start to become efficient at
that and you won't get as great results
with it
and that's why you need to restore your
metabolism with a reverse diet
so if you're doing cardio for two hours
every day start to taper it back add in
a rest day
don't stop all at once because like i
said you have a higher chance of
eating fat faster if you do that but if
you do it really slow
then you'll have better outcomes
okay so now i want to get into two
questions i know you have
one is how do i know it's working how do
i know my reverse diet
is working how do i know my metabolism
has increased we get that question so
much
your metabolism is increased if you've
increased your calories
you will know this if you keep a food
journal you'll intentionally be
increasing it
each week where if you're not tracking
calories and you're going a
you're going a more intuitive approach
or maybe using the palm method with your
hands so that's measuring your food to
your hands this is something we teach as
well
then you'll know if you do a food
journal and the first day and you do a
food journal on the 30th day
you'll see that you're eating more food
towards the end of that month
you've successfully increased your
metabolism
[Music]
now how do you know if it's working and
you're doing it
in an optimized way you'll basically not
gain much fat during the process if you
do it slow enough
you can just build some lean muscle and
get back to a healthier place with your
calories be able to eat more have more
energy
be in a better mood like all these great
things and you won't
be gaining tons of weight if you're
gaining tons of weight you're doing it
too fast
or you're tapering out the cardio too
fast so
the way that you can measure this is
just by taking some metrics
weigh yourself on the scale but don't do
that only
also take photos take measurements of
your waist your hips and your upper
thighs
and just look at the metrics in general
this is so important
make sure you are listening to this this
scale will likely go up
because when we increase our
carbohydrate intake we store more water
so one gram of carbohydrate stores three
to four grams of water so if you
increase your carbs
you are going to weigh more but it's
just
water you're not weighing more because
you gained fat
and that's why taking measurements is
really important because your
measurements will likely stay the same
while your weight may fluctuate so just
keep in mind if you're reverse dieting
don't pay too much attention to the
scale as a really good example of this
i'm currently reverse dieting my
calories were not super low i just
wanted to reverse diet into the holidays
so i can enjoy
extra food and treats you know what i'm
saying so i'm trying to get up to a
solid
1700. we'll see how it goes so far
i'm a month in i have had no change in
measurements
it's going really well my photos look
pretty much the same
but my weight does fluctuate it'll jump
up a few pounds and then go back down
and that's because
carbohydrates so just keep in mind you
have to be really mentally
strong for this and know that the scale
has no
significance if it's just a few pounds
fluctuation here or there that's gonna
happen
it's going to happen so just make sure
that you're using other metrics to
watch your progress basically you don't
have to go forever the goal isn't to get
up to some crazy amount of calories
like at one point i was eating 2 000
calories a few years ago and that was
fun
but it started to be a lot of food to
eat and
it just got crazy so you don't have to
go that high but you want to get to a
place where you feel good
it's probably your natural baseline um
you know working it back up for petite
women
1500 is really good 1600 is even better
but it depends on the individual and it
depends on your lifestyle and what you
want to do and how much you want to eat
and all these things
so you'll stop when you feel good having
a coach would really help you evaluate
this as well
but just know there's no set number that
makes it makes it successful
it depends on the individual lastly i do
want to wrap this up by saying that this
is also a really good time to work on
your mindset around food
they kind of go hand in hand i really
encourage you to journal
throughout the time think about how food
what it means to you if you what your
relationship is with it
if you are afraid of any certain
particular foods
i would encourage you to work through
that maybe explore it if you are in a
place to do that
if you have the tools to do that you
feel prepared to do that of course if
you have a history of ed
and you know you would benefit from
having support along that journey
and you want to actually go down this
path in the first place then definitely
seek support
now you guys i know that this was a lot
of information if
what i'm saying has resonated with you
and you're like yeah i would
i really need to do this but you're
really scared and you don't know what to
do and you're afraid to gain weight
i highly encourage you to hire coach i
want to let you guys know
we just closed the doors to petite power
in october
however we filled up all of our spots
and there's been a lot of demand to do a
november round so we
are doing a smaller more intimate round
of the petite power
program in november and enrollment opens
on the
6th write that down in case you want to
join
now would be the time it's a really good
time to reverse diet also into the
holidays you can enjoy it eat more
treats
and more food and just work on your
relationship and get that education
we love working with clients on this so
jump into the program on november 6th
you can join the waitlist below
i just want to let you guys know that in
case you're wondering like what if i
need to take the next step and get help
we are here for you
and i hope this helped to give you guys
a little bit more education
and background around what a reverse
site is why it's actually a really great
tool for petite women
specifically let me know in the comments
what questions you have about reverse
dieting
happy to share any answers with you guys
that would help
it would actually be really interesting
to hear if you've reverse sighted before
and
what your result was like other than
that i hope that you guys really liked
this video and found it really useful
please give it a thumbs up and help
support this channel and follow for more
content tailored to petite women
and i will see you guys next week
[Music]
you